Research in economy, society and environment – KfW Research | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
What motivates German SMEs? How do they finance their investments?
KfW SME Panel
How many entrepreneurs are there in Germany? How do they finance their enterprises?
KfW Entrepreneurship Monitor
How do private households currently and in the future use technologies relevant to the energy transition?
KfW Energy Transition Barometer
KfW Research – Research in economy, society and environment
We are KfW’s centre of economic expertise. We offer up-to-date analyses, indicators and surveys on the economic development in Germany and around the world. We take a stand with our economic policy recommendations and forecasts. We stimulate public economic discussions and set the basis for KfW’s promotional activities. Our focus is on energy and the environment, SMEs, start-ups, innovations, overall economic performance and growth.
Managing the transition, strengthening growth
Germany's successful growth model, which is based on the export of high-quality capital goods, is under pressure.
KfW Research Position Paper March 2025
New publications
2025-05-06 | KfW Research
German Private Equity Barometer 1st Quarter 2025
Read article
2025-05-05 | KfW Research
KfW-ifo SME Barometer April 2025
Read article
2025-04-14 | KfW Research
KfW Venture Capital Dashboard Q1 2025
Read article
More news
Economy
KfW Research analyses and comments on the economy in Germany and the euro area.
Economy
Venture Capital Market
KfW Research analyses the German venture capital ecosystem and, in addition to topic-related publications, offers a quarterly barometer on business sentiment among German investors and a dashboard on the development of the German venture capital market.
Venture Capital Market
Germany's pursuit of climate neutrality
KfW Research analyses the conditions for success, the opportunities and also the challenges of the desired transformation to climate neutrality.
Climate neutrality
Germany in a global setting
How well equipped are the German economy and SMEs for the global challenges? How can we strengthen the role of Germany and Europe in the world?
Germany's strong ties to the global economy
Publications by topic
Want to find out more about our research findings and positions? Here you can browse through our publications, sorted by subject area.
Read more
Publication series
KfW Research publications by series.
Read more
About KfW Research
Are you interested in how we work? Find out more about our focal areas and organisation.
Read more
Newsletter KfW Research
We would be happy to provide you with regular updates from KfW Research.
Subscribe
Contact
KfW Research
, KfW Bankengruppe, Palmengartenstr. 5-9, 60325 Frankfurt,
ed.wfk@hcraeser ed.wfk@hcraeser
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbgpS
Copy link
Link copied