Responsible Banking | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
KfW in a strong position as it enters 2025
To the digital press portfolio
What's on your mind?
For private customers
For companies
For public institutions
For private customers
For companies
For public institutions
For private customers
For companies
For public institutions
New constructions
Existing properties
Education and training
Business start-ups
Founding and expanding
Energy and the environment
Innovation
Basic municipal and social services
KfW Stories - the digital magazine
NordLink - the green electricity highway
NordLink transports up to 1.4 gigawatts of electricity from Norwegian hydropower and German wind power in both directions.
(Source: KfW / Detlev Karres / Thomas Schuch)
Play video (4:43 min.)
KfW Stories "The green electricity highway"
Website KfW Stories
Energy transition in the private building sector
In Germany, more and more homeowners are currently undergoing their private energy transition: with a solar system on the roof, battery storage and a heat pump in the basement – and perhaps a wallbox for an electric car. (German with English subtitles)
(Source: KfW / Detlev Karres / Thomas Schuch)
Play video (4:03 min.)
KfW Stories 'On behalf of the Paris climate goals'
Our international commitment
International financing
KfW IPEX-Bank
Your partner for international project and export finance
Read more
DEG
We support enterprises that invest in developing countries
Read more
KfW Development Bank
Improving the living conditions of people in developing and emerging countries
Read more
About KfW
KfW at a glance
Promotional mandate and history
Approach and corporate governance
Annual Report
KfW Newsroom
2025-05-09 | Group
KfW Research: Financial position of municipalities in Germany has deteriorated further
Read article
2025-05-08 | Group
KfW in Q1 2025: strong start to the new year despite geopolitical challenges
Read article
2025-05-07 | Group
International financing by KfW: a stronger focus on the geostrategic and economic goals of Germany and Europe
Read article
Read all news
KfW Topics
KfW at a glance
Want to learn more about KfW? All important information can be found here.
To KfW at a glance
Sustainability
Working towards economic, ecological and social sustainability is a firm element of KfW's mission.
To the Sustainability Portal
Investor Relations
KfW’s bonds are especially secure. What distinguishes KfW’s credit quality?
To Investor Relations
KfW Research
Economic analyses of the economy, the environment and society
To KfW Research
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbltN
Copy link
Link copied