Your promotion for existing properties | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Your promotion for existing properties
Would you like to renovate energy-efficiently and heat with renewable energies? Remove barriers or increase burglary protection? Or buy an existing property? You can find suitable promotional funds for your project here.
Energy-efficient heating modernization
Do you want to modernize your heating system for energy efficiency? We promote you with a loan or a grant.
Grant
What do we promote?
With the grant, we promote the purchase and installation of efficient heating systems and heating support systems as well as the connection to a building or heating network. The aim of the grant is to accelerate the switch to climate-friendly heating systems.
Who do we promote?
We promote private individuals who are owners of:
existing and owner-occupied (main or sole residence) or rented or non-owner-occupied single-family homes in Germany,
existing multi-family houses (with more than one residential unit) or
owner-occupied apartments in homeowners' associations in Germany, provided that measures are implemented on the separate property.
We also promote condominium owners' associations (WEG) in Germany, provided that measures are implemented on the common property.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
Single-family house:
Grant of up to EUR 30,000.
Multi-family house:
Grant depends on the number of residential units
EUR 30,000 for the first residential unit
EUR 15,000 each for the second to sixth residential unit
EUR 8,000 each for the seventh residential unit and above
Regardless of the applicant group, you will receive a maximum of 70 % of this as a grant.
Application
You can submit your application in “Meine KfW” customer portal.
Heating promotion for private individuals – residential buildings (only available in German)
Loan
What do we promote?
With the supplementary loan, we promote individual measures for which a grant from KfW or the Federal Office of Economics and Export Control (BAFA) has already been approved or granted but not yet paid out. The approval must not be more than 12 months old.
Who do we promote?
The supplementary loan – Plus (358) is available to private individuals who
have a grant approval from KfW and/or a grant notification from BAFA in accordance with the “Federal Funding for Efficient Buildings – Individual Measures” (BEG EM) directive in their name, which was issued no more than 12 months ago,
are the owner of the residential building or residential unit,
occupy the residential building or unit as their main or sole residence and
whose annual household income does not exceed EUR 90,000.
The supplementary loan (359) is available to all investors (clients) of eligible projects on residential buildings or residential units who have received a grant approval from KfW and/or a grant notification from BAFA in accordance with the “Federal Funding for Efficient Buildings – Individual Measures” (BEG EM) guidelines.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We promote you with a loan. The maximum loan amount is up to EUR 120,000 per residential unit.
The exact loan amount is determined on the basis of the underlying grant approval from KfW or the approval notice from BAFA. If both are available, the eligible costs from both grants are taken into account.
With the supplementary loan – Plus (358), an additional interest rate advantage is granted for the period of the first fixed-interest period for an annual household income of up to EUR 90,000.
Application
You can submit your application to your financing partner.
Individual measures supplementary loan – residential buildings (only available in German)
Complete renovation of existing properties
What do we promote?
We promote the refurbishment and purchase of a newly refurbished efficiency house.
We define an efficiency house as an energy standard for residential buildings. The values 40 to 85 define the different efficiency house levels. The lower the value, the lower the energy requirement of the property and the more subsidies you receive.
Who do we promote?
We promote anyone who
renovate a residential property in a climate-friendly way or
buy a newly renovated climate-friendly residential property.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We promote you with a loan with a repayment subsidy.
The amount of your loan depends on how energy-efficient your renovated property is and how high your eligible costs are. If you achieve efficiency house level 85 or better or efficiency house level listed building, we will support your project with a loan amount of up to 120,000 euros per residential unit.
The maximum loan amount increases to EUR 150,000 per residential unit if your property also meets the criteria for a renewable energy class or a sustainability class.
The repayment subsidy reduces your loan and shortens the term. This means you do not have to repay the entire amount. The better the efficiency house level of your property after renovation, the higher the repayment grant.
Apply for funding – only with energy efficiency experts
You will need the support of an energy efficiency expert for the specialist planning and construction supervision of an efficiency house.
Good to know: We subsidize construction supervision with an additional loan amount and repayment grant. You apply for funding for construction support directly together with your loan.
Application
You apply for funding before you start work or buy the property. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Residential building – loan (only available in German)
Barrier reduction and burglary protection
What do we promote?
We promote investments in building measures in houses and apartments that reduce barriers and improve burglary protection.
The following, for example, are eligible for funding
barrier-reducing conversions, e.g. bathtubs with low entry, grab rails
elevator systems, stair lifts
creation of sufficiently large movement areas, e.g. for wheelchair users
burglary and hold-up systems
burglar-resistant house, apartment and side entrance doors
retrofit systems for windows and French doors
Who do we promote?
We promote anyone who
reduce barriers in your home,
protect themselves against burglary and
want to buy converted living space.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
Up to EUR 50,000 per housing unit can be financed at favorable interest rates for age-appropriate or burglar-proof conversions.
Application
You apply for your funding before you conclude supply and service contracts. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Age-appropriate conversion – loan (only available in German)
Purchase of owner-occupied residential property
What do we promote?
We promote the purchase of owner-occupied homes or condominiums in Germany. This includes
purchase price
incidental costs (e.g. notary and real estate agent fees, land transfer tax)
costs for maintenance, conversion and modernization
Who do we promote?
We promote everyone who wants to buy a house or apartment to live in themselves.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
Up to EUR 100,000 can be financed with the KfW loan. This program can also be used for the purchase of residential property if you subsequently use the property yourself.
Application
You apply for your funding before you buy the property. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
KfW Home Ownership Program (only available in German)
Purchase of cooperative shares for owner-occupied housing
What do we promote?
We promote the acquisition of cooperative shares for owner-occupied cooperative housing in Germany – both for newly founded cooperatives and for participation in an existing housing cooperative.
Who do we promote?
We promote private individuals who wish to acquire cooperative shares for owner-occupied housing
What kind of promotional funds are available?
The maximum loan amount is up to EUR 100,000. You will receive a 7.5 % repayment subsidy, i.e. a maximum of EUR 7,500.
Application
You apply for your funding before you buy the cooperative shares that entitle you to move into your apartment. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Promotion of cooperative housing (only available in German)
Purchase and renovation of existing properties
What do we promote?
We promote the purchase of an existing residential building or an existing condominium in Germany that you renovate to at least “Efficiency House 70 Renewable Energy Class” or "Efficiency House Listed Building Renewable Energies” within 4.5 years of purchase. This includes the purchase price of the property including the land costs for a maximum of one residential unit.
Who do we promote?
We promote families with children and single parents who fulfill the following conditions:
You will occupy the subsidized property as owner-occupier (at least 50 % co-ownership share).
At least one child under the age of 18 lives in your household.
The house or condominium you have purchased is your only residential property in Germany.
Your household income is a maximum of EUR 90,000 per year for one child plus EUR 10,000 for each additional child.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
The funding is between EUR 100,000 and 150,000.
The amount of your loan depends on
how many children under the age of 18 live in your household on the day of application and
how high your household income is.
Application
You apply for your funding before you buy the property. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Home ownership for families – acquisition of existing property (only available in German)
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/eniBeNRI
Copy link
Link copied