Newsroom | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
KfW in Q1 2025: strong start to the new year despite geopolitical challenges
Read more
Dossier 'Heat transition'
Read more
Dossier "Resilience & Sovereignty"
To the dossier
Dossier "Europe goes for it"
Read more
Newsroom
2025-05-09 | Group
KfW Research: Financial position of municipalities in Germany has deteriorated further
2025-05-08 | Group
KfW in Q1 2025: strong start to the new year despite geopolitical challenges
2025-05-07 | Group
International financing by KfW: a stronger focus on the geostrategic and economic goals of Germany and Europe
2025-05-06 | KfW Research
German Private Equity Barometer 1st Quarter 2025
2025-05-06 | Group
KfW Research: US policy is weighing on the outlook for the German venture capital market
Read all press releases and news
Press conferences
Press briefing on international activities
On
7 May 2025
, Christiane Laibach, member of the KfW Executive Board, gave a brief review of KfW's involvement in the international financing business area and an outlook on the challenges and opportunities this year.
To the digital press portfolio
KfW Reporting Portal
Figures and charts
Handling of security and defence financing by KfW Group
For decades, KfW has contributed largely to crisis prevention and peaceful conflict management, as well as to the strategic autonomy and resilience of Europe. Regarding KfW’s financing for the security and defence industry (SDI) or armaments, we see ourselves with a double responsibility:
Read more
Hydrogen core network: an investment in the future for Germany
Germany must become climate-neutral. To achieve this, it is necessary to replace fossil fuels with climate-neutral fuels. One solution is the development of a hydrogen infrastructure. This is a key component of the German government's national hydrogen strategy. As the financier of a new instrument, KfW is driving forward the development of a hydrogen core network. The core network is indispensable for the decarbonisation of the energy supply and important branches of industry.
Read more
The raw materials fund as a building block of a resilient and innovative economy
Ensuring a sustainable supply of raw materials is one of the key foundations for the German economy, the digital transformation and the achievement of climate targets. That is why the German Federal Government has decided to set up a raw materials fund to strengthen the supply of raw materials to German companies as well as increase the resilience of supply chains and of the country's economy as a whole. KfW serves as the central point of contact for the raw materials fund.
Read more
KfW up-to-date
Facts and background on KfW's aid to Ukraine
Three years after the start of the Russian war of aggression, KfW remains a close partner of Ukraine. It will continue to support the country in this difficult time, standing reliably by its side and assuming responsibility. This applies to strengthening Ukraine’s resilience in the current war situation as well as to its reconstruction and the rapprochement process with the EU.
Read more
Videos
Energy transition in the private building sector
In Germany, more and more homeowners are currently undergoing their private energy transition: with a solar system on the roof, battery storage and a heat pump in the basement – and perhaps a wallbox for an electric car. (German with English subtitles)
(Source: KfW / Detlev Karres / Thomas Schuch)
Play video (4:03 min.)
KfW Stories "On behalf of the Paris climate goals"
Heat transition in Hamburg
In Germany's second largest city, the decisive course is currently being set for a sustainable heating transition. With climate-neutral waste heat and the green transformation of the energy supply, climate neutrality can be achieved by 2045.
(Source: KfW / Detlev Karres / Thomas Schuch)
Play video (3:23 min.)
KfW Stories "Heat transition in Hamburg"
How transformation succeds in Indonesia
(Source: KfW / Christian Chua / Thomas Schuch)
Play video (7:10 min.)
NordLink - the green electricity highway
(Source: KfW / Detlev Karres / Thomas Schuch)
Play video (4:43 min.)
Press Events
Information about press events of KfW Group
Read more
History of KfW
History of KfW
The history of KfW is closely interwoven with the economic development of the Federal Republic of Germany
Read more
75 years of KfW
The transformation to a sustainable and resilient Germany has begun. KfW has been supporting the changes in the economy and society on behalf of the federal government and the federal states since 1948.
To the website "75 years of KfW"
Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, Xing and Instagram - the social media channels of KfW at a glance..
Read more
Press Material
To assist journalists in their work, we have a wide range of material available that shows the many different faces and functions of KfW. From photographs and cv by Executive Board members to charts and presentations on our fields of work or figures.
Read more
Special Topics
Special Topics "Europe"
Statements, documents and videos on KfW's European commitment
Read more
Press Contact
Here you will find the contact details for press representatives
Read more
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbm2s
Copy link
Link copied