Innovation and digitalisation | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Innovation and digitalisation
Anyone breaking new ground with innovation and digitalisation projects is investing in the future viability of their own company. KfW supports you with attractive loans.
You can finance a wide range of digital projects with a digitalisation loan. For example, in production or in the organization of your own company.
Are you planning an innovative project? Or is your company particularly innovative? You can secure the financial resources you need with an innovation loan.
ERP-Mezzanine for Innovation
For whom?
For established self-employed professionals and enterprises
For what?
For innovations developed by the enterprise
What kind of promotional funds are available?
Up to 100% of the investment costs eligible for financing, not more than
EUR 5 million
per project
What is so special about this KfW loan?
Attractive 10-year fixed interest rates provide a reliable basis for calculation
Optionally debt capital or a financing packing out of dept capital and subordinated capital
Repayment-free start-up period
Loan application:
with your bank
German website
ERP Digitalisation and Innovation Loan
For whom?
For established self-employed professionals and enterprises
For what?
For the financing of innovation measures in the enterprise
What kind of promotional funds are available?
Up to 100% of the investment costs eligible for financing, not more than
EUR 25 million
per project
What is so special about this KfW loan?
Attractive 10-year fixed interest rates provide a reliable basis for calculation
Repayment-free start-up period
Loan application:
with your bank
German website
Venture Tech Growth Financing
Key facts
For startups based in the EU (with at least one subsidiary, branch, or operating facility in Germany)
Financing in cooperation with professional, private lenders
For growth-enhancing measures
Flexible structure, terms and conditions
For what?
KfW’s Venture Tech Growth Financing programme offers loans to young, innovative, and fast-growing tech-companies to finance their future growth. The programme is part of the Federal Government's Future Fund (“
Zukunftsfonds
”).
Further information on the Future Fund can be found on the websites of the
Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action
and the
Federal Ministry of Finance
.
Typically, projects are financed to build/expand and/or scale business models and implement growth-enhancing measures. This includes, but is not limited to, the financing of
Working capital in the form of working capital lines
Acquisitions
Pre-IPO costs of a planned IPO
Other sales-increasing measures.
The programme is not eligible for:
Restructuring cases and undertakings in difficulty within the meaning of EU state aid law.
KfW also generally excludes certain projects from financing or specifies conditions that must be met. Details can be found in the
Exclusion List of KfW Group
(PDF, 129 KB, accessible)
.
For whom?
Domestic innovative growth companies based in the EU (with at least one subsidiary, branch, or operating facility in Germany).
A prerequisite for financing is usually that a professional venture capital investor (this includes, for example, venture capital providers, equity providers of growth and expansion capital or also private equity providers as minority shareholders) is invested in the company to be financed. In the case of listed companies, it is sufficient if a professional venture capitalist previously held a stake in the company.
Conditions
Financing is provided exclusively in cooperation with professional, private lenders or venture debt providers.
KfW's share in the transaction is usually between EUR 0.5 and 125 million
Usually, a risk sharing between KfW and private lenders in a 50:50 ratio is aspired
KfW accepts the terms and conditions agreed by the private lender, provided these are deemed to be in line with the market on the basis of a credit and risk assessment by KfW
Combination with other programmes
It is possible to combine a loan from the Venture Tech Growth Financing programme with other funding. However, the share of the public sector, including KfW financing, may not exceed two thirds of the total debt financing.
How it works
Please introduce your project to a suitable private lender. At the invitation of the private lender, KfW participates on the same terms as the private lender.
The financing structures are tailored to your individual needs.
Forms and downloads
Information Sheet
(PDF, 132 KB, accessible)
Privacy notice and information on the right of revocation
(PDF, 216 KB, accessible)
(German only)
German website
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/eniBeRR_
Copy link
Link copied