Your promotion for studies and further education | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Your promotion for studies and further education
Education is expensive: working materials and books as well as housing, food and living expenses must be paid for. Side jobs alone will not get you very far anymore. Our loans give you more financial flexibility.
Students – Loan for studies and doctorate
What do we promote?
We promote your living expenses during your studies (regardless of your subject) with a loan if you are studying full-time, part-time, dual or part-time. Distance learning programmes are also possible. We finance semesters abroad if you are still enrolled in Germany. Your university must be based in Germany and be state or state-recognised.
We finance these degree programmes:
Undergraduate first degree programme
Second degree programme (further undergraduate degree programme)
Additional, supplementary or postgraduate programme (postgraduate studies)
Master's degree (postgraduate programme)
Doctorate
Distance learning programme
Part-time study programme
Who do we promote?
We promote all students, regardless of their income and that of their parents, who
are between 18 and 44 years old,
are studying at a state or state-recognised higher education institution based in Germany
and belong to one of the following groups:
German nationals residing in Germany
EU nationals who have been permanently resident in Germany for at least 3 years and are registered here
Family members (regardless of citizenship) of a German or EU national who reside with them in Germany and are registered here
Foreign students with a German registration address
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We support you with a loan:
for up to 14 semesters for a first or second degree programme
for up to 6 semesters for postgraduate studies or a doctorate
Depending on your requirements, we will pay you between EUR 100 and 650 per month (disbursement phase).
At the end of the disbursement phase, the loan enters a repayment-free period during which you only pay interest (interest phase).
At the end of the interest phase, repayment of the KfW Student Loan begins (repayment phase).
The interest rate is variable and is always reset on 1 April and 1 October for six months at a time.
Application
You can submit your application online to one of our financing partners. They will forward your application to KfW.
Information Sheet KfW Student Loan
(PDF, 163 KB, non-accessible)
KfW Student Loan (only available in German)
Students and pupils – Loan for the last years of education
What do we promote?
We promote part of your living expenses during
the final phase of your education
additional, supplementary or postgraduate studies or
an internship
We finance these training programmes, for example
Educator
Foreign language correspondent
Beautician
Physiotherapist
Paramedic
Who do we promote?
We promote all pupils and students, regardless of their income and that of their parents, if they
are 18 to 35 years old
are a full-time trainee or student
attend a college, university of applied sciences, university or BAföG-recognised school. A foreign educational institution must be equivalent to recognised domestic educational institutions.
have your permanent residence in Germany and fulfil the conditions of § 8 BAföG or
have your permanent residence abroad as a German and fulfil the conditions according to § 6 BAföG
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We support you with a loan.
We will pay you monthly instalments of up to EUR 300 for a maximum of 2 years (maximum loan amount EUR 7,200).
Advantages:
It is granted in addition to BAföG (federal training grant).
It is granted regardless of your personal income and your parents' assets
One-off payment of up to EUR 3,600 for special expenses possible
No collateral is required.
Application
You apply for your loan online at the Federal Office of Administration. Here you will also receive a list of the required documents.
Identification in accordance with the German Money Laundering Act
(PDF, 499 KB, non-accessible)
Educational Loan (only available in German)
Professionals – Loan and grant for professional advancement
What do we promote?
We promote you in your full-time or part-time continuing vocational training. You are entitled to funding for each of the further training levels laid down in the Vocational Training Act (BBiG) and the Crafts Code (HWO) as well as for further training levels that are equivalent.
We finance these expenses:
Course and examination fees
Costs for the masterpiece
Financing your living expenses during the examination and preparation phase
Who do we promote?
We will support you with a loan, regardless of age and income, if you:
already have a qualification in a recognised training occupation
are aiming for a qualification regulated by public law as a craftsman, technician, educator or other skilled worker as part of a further training programme. This qualification must be above the level of a skilled worker's, journeyman's or assistant's examination or a vocational college qualification.
you can also complete a further training programme if you are a high school graduate or have dropped out of university without an initial training qualification but with the professional experience required by the further training regulations. The prerequisite is that this is provided for in the relevant examination regulations.
already have a Bachelor's degree or a comparable university degree. However, this must be your highest university degree.
further training that does not lead to a master craftsman's qualification, but to a higher qualification than the previous one in the occupational group (e.g. from journeyman to service technician).
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We support you with a loan and a grant.
You can receive up to EUR 15,000 in funding for your course and examination fees, 50% as a grant and 50% as a loan.
You will receive up to EUR 2,000 in funding for your masterpiece or comparable work, 50% as a grant and 50% as a loan.
As a participant in full-time programmes, you are entitled to a monthly contribution to living expenses for a maximum of 3 months after the end of the programme until the examination, which is granted exclusively as a loan.
You do not pay any interest during the disbursement and waiting phase. This is covered by the federal and state governments.
Application
You submit your application online or in writing to the relevant funding office. Your place of residence is decisive.
If the training programme is divided into several sections, apply for funding for each section separately, at the latest by the end of the programme or section of the programme.
Upgrading BAföG (only available in German)
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/eniBeNRM
Copy link
Link copied