How KfW is involved on the African continent | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Africa
How KfW is involved on the African continent
Africa harbours great potential: a wealth of resources, cultural diversity, entrepreneurial spirit and innovative strength. Around half of the 20 fastest growing economies are located in Africa. By 2035, the continent will have the largest labour supply in the world. It is an enormous challenge to utilise this potential of the rapidly growing population - it will double to 2.5 billion people by 2050. One in four of the world's inhabitants will be African. This is where the global markets, employees and customers of the future are growing up. Infrastructure development in particular is booming in Africa in general and in East Africa in particular, where growth of 5.1 % is expected in 2024 and 5.7 % in 2025 (compared to 3.5 % in 2023).
(Source:
East Africa | African Development Bank Group (afdb.org)
)
Infrastructure as a driver for development
As a responsible bank, KfW has been committed to targeted investments in infrastructure, education and social projects on the African continent since the early 1960s. Today, through KfW Development Bank and the two group subsidiaries KfW IPEX-Bank and DEG Invest, it makes an important contribution to the development of the African continent.
economic development,
poverty reduction,
promoting a sustainable and stable society.
KfW finances and advises private, local and German companies that are active or want to be active in Africa. It supports German and European companies with customised export financing. In this way, it not only promotes economic development in the partner countries, but also the competitiveness of German companies.
Strategic partnerships of outstanding importance
In this context, the strategic partnerships are of outstanding importance. In cooperation with partner governments, KfW supports the construction of schools and roads, hospitals, sewage treatment plants and water supply systems as well as programmes to promote SMEs, such as the promotional programme for green hydrogen in South Africa or the hydrogen partnership with Morocco. The aim is to promote the global, socially just transition to a climate-neutral and resilient social and economic order.
Despite visible successes, many African countries are fragile. There are ethnic conflicts, armed conflicts and refugee movements. In these contexts, KfW cooperates with UN organisations and non-governmental organisations to care for internally displaced persons and offer them training and jobs.
Support for companies and export financing
Jobs are also being created at private companies that KfW subsidiary DEG finances and advises. In addition to local companies, this increasingly includes German companies that are active or want to be active in Africa. The aim of this commitment is to promote entrepreneurship and create prospects for local people. At the end of 2024, financing for companies in Africa/MENA (Middle East and North Africa) accounted for almost 27% of DEG's portfolio at three billion euros. Of the new equity financing committed in 2024, around 609 million euros - or a quarter - was earmarked for Africa/MENA. Here, DEG invests in private infrastructure such as renewable energy projects as well as in local banks - to finance small and medium-sized enterprises locally - and in companies in the agricultural sector or manufacturing industry.
KfW development bank is now also playing an increasingly important role in mobilising private capital. It finances funds on the African continent to promote private sector involvement. KfW is currently involved with 4.6 billion euros in 67 funds in various sectors. Africa has the largest share of the overall impact fund portfolio with 33% (i.e. four out of 12 billion euros). This is a sustainable investment opportunity that focuses on financial returns as well as environmental, economic and social impact.
Further information on impact funds
KfW Development Bank committed a total of 2.6 billion euros for projects in Africa in 2024 - generally on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ). A good one billion euros of this is for social infrastructure and services such as food security, health, water and education, and 952 million euros for economic infrastructure and services such as energy and environmental projects.
KfW IPEX-Bank's loan portfolio in Africa currently totals over two billion euros, with a large part of this being concentrated in the continent's economically strong and large countries, particularly Egypt, South Africa and Nigeria. The primary task of the KfW subsidiary is to support German and European companies through export financing. This not only promotes economic development in the partner countries, but also the competitiveness of German companies. These benefit from customised financing for their contractors, whereby KfW IPEX-Bank can contribute its extensive experience with Export-Agency-Credit-covered financing to the benefit of European producers and African customers. The focus is on the areas of mobility infrastructure, renewable energies including green hydrogen and business with local banks.
Examples of projects
Life-saving medicines and vaccines ‘Made in Africa’
Together with other development financiers, DEG is committed to improving medical care and local access to essential medicines in Africa. In the long term, this initiative aims to make the health sector in Africa more resilient and improve medical care for the population.
Further information
Electrification of villages in Senegal
KfW IPEX-Bank is financing the rural electrification of 300 villages in Senegal. The project makes a targeted contribution to environmentally friendly and sustainable local development and supports German exports.
Further information
Drinking water supply in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
The financed ‘Baran’ project is part of the Ivorian government's ‘Water for All’ initiative to improve the drinking water supply, particularly in rural areas. The core of the programme is the construction of around 8,000 new wells, in addition to the existing 21,000 wells throughout the country. Financing from KfW IPEX-Bank enables the use of important components from Sweden and the Netherlands on site.
Further information
Sustainable development of the Serengeti ecosystem
Like no other national park, the Serengeti is the epitome of an animal paradise. It has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1981. KfW's commitment to preserving the Serengeti ecosystem - as in many regions around the world - is caught between the need to utilise land for the self-sufficiency of the local population and the necessary restrictions on use to protect natural resources.
Further information
Further information
KfW Development Bank
On behalf of the German government, we improve people's living conditions in developing and emerging countries in a sustainable way and promote climate and environmental protection.
Website of KfW Development Bank
DEG
We finance and support private companies that are active in developing countries and emerging economies.
Website of DEG - Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft
KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW IPEX-Bank supports the German and European economies with project and export finance.
Website of KfW IPEX-Bank
Status: 28 January 2025
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkB4Da-
Copy link
Link copied