International financing by KfW: a stronger focus on the geostrategic and economic goals of Germany and Europe | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Press Release from 2025-05-07 / Group, KfW IPEX-Bank, DEG, KfW Development Bank
International financing by KfW: a stronger focus on the geostrategic and economic goals of Germany and Europe
Global new business at a high, stable level of EUR 34.2 billion in 2024
Protecting the climate and promoting biodiversity remain a key focus
KfW’s strong contribution to Global Gateway projects supports the EU’s joint engagement
Executive Board member Christiane Laibach: “We continue to be a reliable partner in an uncertain world”
KfW has announced that it will focus its international financing even more strongly on the geostrategic and economic objectives of Germany and Europe.
"As a global partner for governments and companies at home and abroad, we are strengthening Germany’s soft power. We need more, not less, international cooperation,"
stated Christiane Laibach, member of the Executive Board of KfW Group, at the annual press briefing on KfW’s international activities in Frankfurt am Main on Wednesday. Germany benefits from stable and prosperous regions around the world.
"As an export and import nation, we are being hard hit by the difficult economic situation in many countries. Our own safety and German prosperity depend to a large extent on whether conflicts and the number of unstable states are increasing and on German and European companies’ competitiveness in the global markets."
KfW’s international business at KfW Development Bank and its subsidiaries KfW IPEX-Bank and DEG is at a high, stable level of around EUR 34.2 billion (2023: EUR 35.1 billion).
“We continue to be a reliable partner in an uncertain world”,
said Laibach.
”In the coming years, we plan to increase the number of projects that benefit Germany in terms of energy and raw material security.”
KfW will support the German economy within the scope of its international commitment with its broad mix of instruments and sees many starting points for supporting the new federal government in implementing the coalition agreement. The four main topics are as follows:
stable relations, including with developing countries and emerging economies,
reliable framework conditions for investments,
tailor-made financing options and
individual advice when entering high-risk markets.
Through its international financing, KfW committed a total of EUR 12.6 billion to environment and climate financing in 2024. This high level will be maintained in the future – including through new approaches such as platforms and funds to offer private investors standardised investment opportunities at reduced risk.
As part of Global Gateway, the EU’s counterpart to China's New Silk Road, the share of projects with KfW’s participation amounted to around EUR 34 billion between 2021 and 2024. This is more than ten percent of the total volume of around EUR 300 billion.
Detailed information is available at
Press briefing on international activities | KFW
.
Contact
Dr Charis Pöthig
+49 69 74 31 46 83
Charis.Poethig
@kfw.de
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbm2w.DPXB
Copy link
Link copied