export financing | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Global impact - strengthening the export industry, shaping the future
How KfW supports the German and European export industry with transformation projects
With customised financing solutions, we contribute to maintaining the competitiveness and future viability of German and European export companies. Investments in innovative energy projects, the mobility transition and future technologies are crucial to achieving the goal of climate neutrality and securing prosperity at the same time.
As a bank committed to responsibility, we therefore focus in particular on financing sustainable projects to enable a green and digital transformation. In this way, we use our expertise to support not only economic but also sustainable development - worldwide.
What does KfW achieve worldwide through its involvement in the export industry?
Europe
Europe as an opportunity: single market strengthens export business
The European single market can compensate for losses in transatlantic trade by removing trade barriers and through project financing. The German export industry benefits from this.
To article
USA
Tariff dispute with the USA: new opportunities through export finance
Despite the tariff dispute with the USA, the US market remains important for Germany and Europe, with KfW opening up new opportunities through its export financing. Innovative projects emphasise this approach.
To article
Africa
Great prospects in Africa: potentials for German exports
Trade conflicts threaten the competitive position of German companies on the global market. New markets must therefore be opened up for exports. Africa offers great opportunities.
To article
Steelmaking goes green
KfW IPEX-Bank is providing a loan of EUR 187.5 million to help finance an integrated flat steel plant in Sweden that uses green hydrogen and reduces emissions by up to 95%. The project will reach a capacity of 5 million tonnes per year by 2030. Key components will come from Germany and will be supplied by SMS group and thyssenkrupp nucera.
Further information
Solar power from the desert
In Ouarzazate, Morocco, KfW has participated in the financing of one of the world's largest solar power plants. Among other things, the turbines were supplied from Germany (Siemens), the parabolic mirrors came from Schott and BASF provided special salts needed for the heat cycle.
Further information
Baltic Power
Poland's first offshore wind farm will supply around 1.5 million households with electricity from 2026. The German manufacturer Steelwind Nordenham is supplying 76 pile foundations. The financing is being provided by KfW IPEX-Bank as part of an international banking consortium, backed by export insurance from Euler Hermes.
Further information
German metro technology in India
In the Indian state of Gujarat, a metro line is being built between the metropolis of Ahmedabad and the state capital Gandhinagar. Siemens is responsible for project management, modern railway electrification and digital solutions. KfW is supporting the Ahmedabad metro with a subsidised loan of EUR 100 million.
Further information
KfW IPEX-Bank
A strong economy, a strong future – financing for global success
KfW IPEX-Bank finances investments that maintain value creation in Germany and Europe and at the same time pave the way to international markets.
More information
KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW IPEX-Bank supports the German and European economies through project and export finance.
Website of KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW Development Bank
On behalf of the German Federal Government, we improve people's living conditions in developing and emerging countries in a sustainable way and promote climate and environmental protection.
Website of KfW Development Bank
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkB5rsi
Copy link
Link copied