Housing companies | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Housing companies
Our funding programmes are aimed at housing companies. We promote the construction of new energy-efficient houses and flats as well as the energy-efficient refurbishment of older residential buildings. We also support you in the expansion of renewable energies and the creation of barrier-free and burglar-proof living space.
Climate-friendly building
What do we promote?
We promote the new construction and initial purchase of climate-friendly residential buildings and condominiums in Germany. Funding is provided for the following stages:
Climate-friendly residential building
A residential building achieves this stage if it
achieves the efficiency house level 40,
emits so little CO
2
in its life cycle that the greenhouse gas emissions requirements of the "Sustainable Building Plus quality seal" are met, and
is not heated with oil, gas or biomass.
Climate-friendly residential building – with QNG
A residential building achieves this stage if it
achieves the efficiency house level 40,
meets the requirements of the "Sustainable Building Plus quality seal (QNG-PLUS)" or the "Sustainable Building Premium quality seal (QNG-PREMIUM)" – confirmed by a sustainability certificate and
is not heated with oil, gas or biomass.
Who do we promote?
We promote anyone who
build a climate-friendly residential property or
buy a new climate-friendly residential property.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We support you with a loan.
The maximum loan amount is EUR 100,000 per residential unit if your property achieves the stage "climate-friendly residential building".
The maximum loan amount rises to EUR 150,000 per residential unit if your property achieves the stage "climate-friendly residential building – with QNG".
Apply for promotion – only with experts in energy efficiency and sustainability
Good planning is important for climate-friendly construction measures. That's why it's worth taking advantage of expert support: Consult an energy efficiency expert. This is mandatory for promotion. For the support level with QNG, you also need a consultant for sustainability.
Good to know: You can consider the costs for specialist planning and construction supervision as well as sustainability certification directly with your loan application.
Application
You apply for funding before you start work or buy the property. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Climate-friendly new construction – residential buildings (only available in German)
Energy-efficient heating
There are two forms of financing available to you: a grant and a supplementary loan.
Grant
What do we promote?
With the grant, we promote the installation of efficient heating systems and heating support systems as well as the connection to a building or heating network. The aim of the grant is to accelerate the switch to climate-friendly heating systems.
Who do we promote?
We promote companies and contractors who want to install an efficient heating system or set up a connection to a building or heating network.
This includes
Individual companies and freelancers
Companies and municipal companies
Corporations and organizations under public law (chambers or associations)
Non-profit organizations and churches
Legal entities under private law and housing co-operatives
What kind of promotional funds are available?
The maximum total eligible costs for your grant application depend on the number of residential units in the building and the number of residential units that are subsidized by the measure:
EUR 30,000 for the first residential unit
EUR 15,000 each for the second to sixth residential unit
EUR 8,000 each for the seventh residential unit and above
The maximum subsidized amount for the building is divided equally between the individual residential units.
You will receive a maximum of 35% of the eligible costs calculated in this way and, if applicable, the emissions reduction surcharge as an additional grant.
Application
You can submit your application in “Meine KfW” customer portal.
Heating promotion for companies – residential buildings (only available in German)
Loan
What do we promote?
With the supplementary loan, we promote individual measures for which a grant from KfW or the Federal Office of Economics and Export Control (BAFA) has already been approved or granted but not yet paid out. The approval must not be more than 12 months old.
Who do we promote?
The supplementary loan – Plus (358) is available to private individuals who
have a grant approval from KfW and/or a grant notification from BAFA in accordance with the “Federal Funding for Efficient Buildings - Individual Measures” (BEG EM) directive in their name, which was issued no more than 12 months ago,
are the owner of the residential building or residential unit,
occupy the residential building or unit as their main or sole residence and
whose annual household income does not exceed EUR 90,000.
The supplementary loan (359) is available to all investors (clients) of eligible projects on residential buildings or residential units who have received a grant approval from KfW and/or a grant notification from BAFA in accordance with the “Federal Funding for Efficient Buildings – Individual Measures” (BEG EM) guidelines.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We promote you with a loan. The maximum loan amount is up to EUR 120,000 per residential unit.
The exact loan amount is determined on the basis of the underlying grant approval from KfW or the approval notice from BAFA. If both are available, the eligible costs from both grants are taken into account.
With the supplementary loan – Plus (358), an additional interest rate advantage is granted for the period of the first fixed-interest period for an annual household income of up to EUR 90,000.
Application
You can submit your application to your financing partner.
Individual measures supplementary loan – residential buildings (only available in German)
Refurbish a residential building to an efficiency house
What do we promote?
We promote the refurbishment and purchase of a newly refurbished efficiency house.
We define an efficiency house as an energy standard for residential buildings. The values 40 to 85 define the different efficiency house levels. The lower the value, the lower the energy requirement of the property and the more subsidies you receive.
Who do we promote?
We promote anyone who
renovate a residential property in a climate-friendly way or
buy a newly renovated climate-friendly residential property.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We promote you with a loan with a repayment grant.
The amount of your loan depends on how energy-efficient your renovated property is and how high your eligible costs are. If you achieve efficiency house level 85 or better or efficiency house level listed building, we will support your project with a loan amount of up to 120,000 euros per residential unit.
The maximum loan amount increases to EUR 150,000 per residential unit if your property also meets the criteria for a renewable energy class or a sustainability class.
The repayment grant reduces your loan and shortens the term. This means you do not have to repay the entire amount. The better the efficiency house level of your property after renovation, the higher the repayment grant.
Apply for funding – only with energy efficiency experts
You will need the support of an energy efficiency expert for the specialist planning and construction supervision of an efficiency house.
Good to know: We subsidize construction supervision with an additional loan amount and repayment grant. You apply for funding for construction support directly together with your loan.
Application
You apply for funding before you start work or buy the property. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Residential building – loan (only available in German)
Barrier reduction and burglary protection
What do we promote?
We promote investments in building measures in houses and apartments that reduce barriers and improve burglary protection.
The following, for example, are eligible for funding
barrier-reducing conversions, e.g. bathtubs with low entry, grab rails
elevator systems, stair lifts
creation of sufficiently large movement areas, e.g. for wheelchair users
burglary and hold-up systems
burglar-resistant house, apartment and side entrance doors
retrofit systems for windows and French doors
Who do we promote?
We promote anyone who
reduce barriers in your home,
protect themselves against burglary and
want to buy converted living space.
What kind of promotional funds are available?
Up to EUR 50,000 per housing unit can be financed at favorable interest rates for age-appropriate or burglar-proof conversions.
Application
You apply for your funding before you conclude supply and service contracts. You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Age-appropriate conversion – loan (only available in German)
Utilising renewable energies
What do we promote?
We promote investments in Germany and abroad, in particular
Construction, expansion and acquisition of plants for the utilisation of renewable energies, including the associated costs for planning, project development and installation
Construction, expansion and acquisition of plants solely for heat generation based on renewable energies
Heat/cold networks and heat/cold storage systems that are fed from renewable energy sources
Flexibilisation of electricity demand and supply, digitalisation of the energy transition with the aim of integrating renewable energies into the energy system in a system-compatible manner
Contracting projects and modernisations with increased output
Who do we promote?
We promote:
Domestic and foreign private and public companies - regardless of size
Corporations, foundations and institutions under public law, municipal special-purpose associations
Private individuals and non-profit applicants
You must feed at least part of the electricity or heat generated into the grid.
Freelancers
German private companies and their subsidiaries abroad
Joint ventures with significant German participation abroad
Freelancers working in Germany
What kind of promotional funds are available?
We will promote your project with a loan of up to 150 million euros. Your bank will determine your individual interest rate based on your location, your financial circumstances and the quality of your collateral.
The minimum term is generally 2 years.
Application
You can submit the application to your financing partner.
Renewable energies – Standard (only available in German)
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/eniBwNfT
Copy link
Link copied