International Financing of KfW | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Global impact - strengthening the export industry, shaping the future
More information on export financing
KfW enables the transformation to a sustainable and resilient future worldwide
As a responsible bank, we help shape transformation processes in developing and emerging countries as well as industrialised nations. Our broad range of financing supports climate protection, the expansion of economic and social infrastructure and promotes companies worldwide. With many years of expertise and a broad network, we support our partners and customers in challenging markets, create better living conditions and work towards a more sustainable world. In doing so, we also make an important contribution to energy and raw materials security and strengthen international trade and cooperation in times of geopolitical crises.
Current topics in international financing
Export industry
Global impact - strengthening the export industry, shaping the future: how KfW supports the German and European export industry in transformation projects.
To topic "Export financing"
Digitalisation and innovation
KfW supports companies and project partners in the development of innovative technologies and sustainable digital solutions to drive digitalisation and innovation.
To briefing "digitalisation and innovation"
Biodiversity
KfW is strongly committed to the conservation of biodiversity. It is one of the main international donors for biodiversity when measured in financial instruments such as promotional loans and grants.
To briefing "biodiversity"
Green hydrogen
KfW promotes the use of green hydrogen worldwide, focusing on technologies known as ‘Power to X’, which use electricity generated from wind or solar power.
To briefing "green hydrogen"
Ukraine
KfW remains a close partner of Ukraine. This applies to strengthening Ukraine’s resilience in the current war situation as well as to its reconstruction and the rapprochement process with the EU.
To website on "Ukraine"
Africa
As a responsible bank, KfW has been committed to targeted investments in infrastructure, education and social projects on the African continent since the early 1960s.
To briefing "Africa"
Syria
Following the fall of the Assad regime, KfW is committed to the stabilisation and contributes to the country's new start.
To briefing "Syria"
KfW is creating prospects - worldwide
Our international fields of activity
KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW IPEX-Bank supports the German and European economies through project and export finance.
Website of KfW IPEX-Bank
DEG
We finance and support private companies that are active in developing countries and emerging economies.
Website of DEG - Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft
KfW Development Bank
On behalf of the German Federal Government, we improve people's living conditions in developing and emerging countries in a sustainable way and promote climate and environmental protection.
Website of KfW Development Bank
Our locations worldwide
News
2025-05-07 | Group
International financing by KfW: a stronger focus on the geostrategic and economic goals of Germany and Europe
Read article
2025-05-02 | KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW IPEX-Bank: Alexander Schober takes over as Global Head of the Infrastructure sector
Read article
2025-04-30 | KfW IPEX-Bank
Aida Welker joins the Management Board of KfW IPEX-Bank
Read article
Read all press releases in the KfW Newsroom
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbmma
Copy link
Link copied