Heat transition in Germany using the example of Hamburg | KfW Stories
Reset
Show search
waermewends-hamburg
Energy Efficiency
Energy Efficiency
Heat transition in Hamburg
An article by:
Detlev Karres
Reading time: 8 min
Data protection principles
If you click on one of the following icons, your data will be sent to the corresponding social network.
Privacy information
Hamburg is currently reaching key milestones as it undergoes a sustainable heating transition. One of the largest pipeline networks in Germany is already increasingly supplied with carbon-free exhaust heat from industrial companies. And in the east of the city, the planned transformation of the Tiefstack energy park will be another important step on the road to climate neutrality by 2045.
Just in sight of the
Elbphilharmonie
in the east of Hamburg lies the
Aurubis AG
plant. The company is Europe’s largest copper manufacturer and has developed a multi-award-winning flagship project that has been successfully supplying an entire district with almost climate-neutral exhaust heat for several years now.
Together with the energy supplier
Enercity AG
from Lower Saxony, a pipeline was built that runs for close to four kilometres from the
Aurubis
plant, under one of the Elbe bridges, to the
HafenCity
in the east. Since then, more than 6,000 households have been supplied with green heating.
Energy transition in the private building sector
In Germany, more and more homeowners are currently undergoing their private energy transition: with a solar system on the roof, battery storage and a heat pump in the basement – and perhaps a wallbox for an electric car. (German with English subtitles)
Source: KfW / Detlev Karres / Thomas Schuch
Innovative technology
Intermediate absorber
In the new intermediate absorber, a chemical process takes place in which CO₂-free heat is released; this heats water to a temperature of over 90 degrees via a heat exchanger.
Aurubis
first had to build a new
intermediate absorber
. This orange-coloured colossus weighs over 250 tonnes, is 18 metres high and has a diameter of six metres. Chemical processes that take place here generate large amounts of exhaust heat that was previously cooled down in the River
Elbe
completely unused.
With the intermediate absorber's innovative technology, it has been possible to feed the hot water directly into the new pipeline for the
HafenCity
.
Subsidies
However, the pioneering project was only perfected when the
Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK)
and
KfW
as promotional partner agreed to provide financial support.
All those involved at an early stage agreed: without the promotion, the exhaust heat project could not have been implemented in this form. With BMWK-financed repayment grants from the “KfW energy efficiency programme – exhaust heat” (today:
“Federal Funding for Energy Efficiency in Commerce”
),
Aurubis
was able to finance the necessary plant conversion, heat extraction and the internal line up to the plant boundary at low cost. Funding was also provided for the heat transport pipeline of the project partner
Enercity
.
Ulf Gehrckens
has been working for many years as a manager for energy and climate action at the Hamburg-based metal group Aurubis.
Aurubis
manager
Ulf Gehrckens
was involved in the exhaust heat project from the very beginning.
“KfW made a very important contribution to this project. This project needed grants. And it was not possible to get those grants directly. There had to be a bank in between. And KfW stepped in to provide the funding.”
Blueprint for the municipal heat transition
Harald Lesch
is a professor at LMU Munich and lecturer in natural philosophy at the Munich School of Philosophy. He is also a well-known book author and presenter of science programmes.
For
Professor Harald Lesch
, the multi-award-winning physicist and renowned scientific journalist ("Leschs Kosmos" and “Terra X”), the project in Hamburg could serve as a blueprint for many other cities in Germany.
“Transporting industrial exhaust heat into a residential area is once again one of those projects where you could say: Why haven't we been doing this before?
Every machine produces heat, every process in industry releases heat, and at a copper plant, heat is naturally available in excess. We have an energy source here, and now all we need is pipes that bring this energy to where it is needed.
And of course, if an almost revolutionary project like this one should be launched, KfW as an institution is also in demand. There has to be someone to finance this at the beginning – and that’s what KfW does!.”
The future of the heating transition
Exhaust heat project 2.0
A new exhaust heat project by Aurubis AG and Hamburger Energiewerke was completed in January 2025.
However, the deal wasn't perfect until
KfW
and the
Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action
pledged their support. Everyone agrees that without the funding, the district heating project would not have been carried out. With repayment bonuses financed by the Federal Ministry from the "KfW Energy Efficiency Programme – Waste Heat" (nowadays: "Federal funding for energy and resource efficiency in the economy"),
Aurubis
was able to fund the necessary plant conversion, heat extraction and internal pipeline up to the site perimeter more cost-effectively. Funding was also provided for the heat transport pipeline of the project partner
Enercity
Since then, the Aurubis waste heat has been fed into the Hanseatic city's district heating network, which is over 860 kilometres long. To this end,
Hamburger Energiewerke
has built a new pipeline from the
pressurised heat storage facility
on Georgswerder Damm to the transfer station on Spaldingstrasse.
More than
20,000 households
will be supplied with green exhaust heat in future. Through increased use of climate-neutral industrial exhaust heat, it will be possible to save up to
100,000 tonnes of carbon emissions
each year. The new exhaust heat project in Hamburg is currently one of the largest of the heating transition in Germany.
Tiefstack energy park
Transformation
Hamburg intends to phase out coal by 2030 at the latest: by this date, the coal-fired power plant in Tiefstack energy park will have been transformed.
The use of the
Aurubis
exhaust heat is also an important building block for the gradual transformation of the
Tiefstack
energy park
. Here, the existing coal-fired power plant will first be converted into a plant that will generate heat based on biomass, gas and later hydrogen by 2030 at the latest.
Other components include exhaust heat recovery from the existing
waste incineration plant
as well as a new
power-to-heat plant
, with which it will soon be possible to feed hot water into the district heating network via an electrode boiler. Due to an above-ground
heat storage system
, it will also be possible to provide the heat at any time when it is needed.
The new Tiefstack energy park
By the end of the decade, two new types of
river heat pumps
will be used to extract heat from the
Elbe
river. These are set to contribute the largest share of climate-neutral heat to the
Tiefstack
energy park
in future. After completion, the two heat pumps will supply around
130,000 households
with green heat, producing a
combined output of around 230 megawatts
.
River heat pumps
Heat from Rhine water
The largest river water pump on the Rhine has been operating on the site of the large-scale power plant in
Mannheim
since October 2023.
The currently largest river heat pump went into operation successfully in October 2023 in
Mannheim
on the Rhine. The XXL heat pump works in principle the same as a normal air source heat pump. Instead of heat from the air, the river power plant only uses Rhine water.
The water coming from the river heat pump is as hot as 99 degrees. It is part of the district heating supply operated by the
Mannheim
-based utility company
MVV Energie AG
. The river heat pump, which costs around EUR 15 million, is located on the site of the large-scale power plant in
Mannheim
in the south of the city. The heat goes directly into the district heating network and currently supplies green heat for 3,500 households. The planned Hamburg models will even exceed this output many times over:
Support from KfW
The river heat pump in
Mannheim
was supported by the
IKU – Investment Loan for Municipal and Social Enterprises (148)
.
Read more (in German only
The
Mannheim
river heat pump was developed by the BMWK as part of the 7th energy research programme as a
“real laboratory of the energy transition”
(with federal and EU funds). In addition, state aid-free loans from the
KfW Programme 148
were included in the project financing via
BayernLB
.
A much larger heat pump is currently being planned downstream in Cologne. RheinEnergie AG's river heat pump will be then the largest in Europe and, with a heat output of 150 megawatts, will supply tens of thousands of households in the cathedral city with green heat.
Municipal heat transition
District heating expansion
The expansion of district heating networks is essential for the future heating supply. All heating networks are to be climate neutral by 2045.
Germany has set itself the goal of being climate-neutral by 2045. Around 60% of final energy consumption is currently attributable to the heating sector. The transformation of the heating sector is therefore essential. By mid-2028 at the latest, all of the around 11,000 municipalities in Germany are to have heating planning: by 30 June 2026 in large cities (100,000 inhabitants and more) and two years later in municipalities with fewer than 100,000 inhabitants. Smaller municipalities (fewer than 10,000 inhabitants) can use a simplified heat planning procedure, which is decided upon by the federal states.
The German Federal Government has laid the legal foundations for comprehensive municipal heating planning. District heating in particular will play an important role in the future heat supply: existing heat networks will be further expanded and gradually converted to supply heat from renewable energies. By 2045, all heating networks must therefore also be climate-neutral.
Since 1 January 2024, new heating networks have been required to supply at least 65% of their heat from renewable energy sources. By 2030, half of the pipeline heat is to be generated in a climate-neutral manner, with 30% of the heating in the networks set to come from renewable energies or industrial exhaust heat. By 2040, this figure is set to stand at 80%.
As the Federal Government’s digital transformation and promotional bank, KfW is making it possible for municipalities, companies and private individuals to achieve the ambitious goal of making Germany climate-neutral by 2045.
The example of Hamburg impressively shows how a municipal heating transition can be successful with targeted promotion of innovative and climate-friendly measures.
Published on KfW Stories on 15 April 2025, updated on 8 April 2025..
The described project contributes to the following United Nationsʼ Sustainable Development Goals
Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation - Non-existent or dilapidated infrastructure hinders economic efficiency and thus engenders poverty. When building infrastructure, the focus should be on sustainability, for example, by promoting environmentally-friendly means of transport. Factories and industrial facilities should also ensure that production is in line with ecological aspects to avoid unnecessary environmental pollution.
Goal 11: Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable - As things stand, half of the worldʼs population already lives in cities. Yet cities fuel global warming. They are responsible for 70 per cent of energy consumption and energy-related greenhouse gas emissions. Heavy traffic, intense construction activity with a massive urban sprawl, high energy requirements and enormous amounts of waste and wastewater – all of these things come together in cities. However, the density of cities makes them the ideal starting point for combating climate change. This is because they can protect resources on a large scale and act as a sustainability template, for example, by using space-saving and compact urban structures, low-emission traffic systems, energy-efficient buildings and regulated waste disposal.
Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns - Humanity has long lived beyond its ecological means. This applies in particular to industrial countries and the growing upper and middle classes in many emerging economies. The transition to an economic strategy and way of life that respects the natural limitations of our planet can only be successful if we adjust our consumption habits and production techniques. Internationally valid rules for labour, health and environmental protection are important for this.
Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts - Water shortages, droughts, hurricanes and floods are just a few of the many consequences of global climate change and causes of migration. Around 20 million people are currently being forced to leave their homes as a result of climate-induced events. Climate change does not stop at national borders and its effects are not limited to individual policy areas, economic sectors or social groups. International efforts to contain climate change must also take into account the many interactions between these domains.
Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation - Non-existent or dilapidated infrastructure hinders economic efficiency and thus engenders poverty. When building infrastructure, the focus should be on sustainability, for example, by promoting environmentally-friendly means of transport. Factories and industrial facilities should also ensure that production is in line with ecological aspects to avoid unnecessary environmental pollution.
Goal 11: Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable - As things stand, half of the worldʼs population already lives in cities. Yet cities fuel global warming. They are responsible for 70 per cent of energy consumption and energy-related greenhouse gas emissions. Heavy traffic, intense construction activity with a massive urban sprawl, high energy requirements and enormous amounts of waste and wastewater – all of these things come together in cities. However, the density of cities makes them the ideal starting point for combating climate change. This is because they can protect resources on a large scale and act as a sustainability template, for example, by using space-saving and compact urban structures, low-emission traffic systems, energy-efficient buildings and regulated waste disposal.
Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns - Humanity has long lived beyond its ecological means. This applies in particular to industrial countries and the growing upper and middle classes in many emerging economies. The transition to an economic strategy and way of life that respects the natural limitations of our planet can only be successful if we adjust our consumption habits and production techniques. Internationally valid rules for labour, health and environmental protection are important for this.
Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts - Water shortages, droughts, hurricanes and floods are just a few of the many consequences of global climate change and causes of migration. Around 20 million people are currently being forced to leave their homes as a result of climate-induced events. Climate change does not stop at national borders and its effects are not limited to individual policy areas, economic sectors or social groups. International efforts to contain climate change must also take into account the many interactions between these domains.
Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
Non-existent or dilapidated infrastructure hinders economic efficiency and thus engenders poverty. When building infrastructure, the focus should be on sustainability, for example, by promoting environmentally-friendly means of transport. Factories and industrial facilities should also ensure that production is in line with ecological aspects to avoid unnecessary environmental pollution.
Open gallery
(4 Pictures)
All United Nations member states adopted the 2030 Agenda in 2015. At its heart is a list of 17 goals for sustainable development, known as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our world should become a place where people are able to live in peace with each other in ways that are ecologically compatible, socially just, and economically effective.
Image-Reference
On our website, pictures taken, among others, by the following photographers/photo agencies are used:
Agentur photothek.net, Deutsche Messe Hannover, Andreas Arnold, Jörg Böthling, Dominik Butzmann, Carsten Costard, Susanne Esche, Charlie Fawell, Rendel Freude, Torsten George, Gaby Gerster, David Greedy, Peter Himsel, Barbara Högner, Frank Homann, Fred Hoogervorst, Steffen Jagenburg (BRANSCH EUROPE), Thomas Klewar, Studio Kohlmeier , Florian Kopp, Georg Lopata, Jürgen Lösel, Kirsten Milhahn, Rüdiger Nehmzow, Rolf Obertreis, Rubén Arnaldo Farina Ortiz, Holger Peters, Joachim Röttgers, Mika Schmidt, Bernhard Schurian, Jens Steingässer, Pietro Sutera, Uwe Tölle, Jan Zappner.
Fotolia.com: amandare, Yuri Arcurs, Kitch Bain, Ingo Bartussek, Sergio Donà, drizzd, Dmitry Ersler, eyewave, Zoltán Futó, Eric Gevaert, Fotolia XXV, Friedberg, goodluz, Dirk Hoffmann, imageteam, Christian Jung, Abdelhamid Kalai, Sergej Khakimullin, Vladimir Kolobov, krizz7, Kzenon, lumen-digital, marog-pixcells, Mindwalker, Miredi, mirpic, Nebuto, Tino Neitz, Christian Pedant, Franz Pfluegl, prognone, Gina Sanders, Henry Schmitt, spree berlin, SVLuma, Kheng Guan Toh, tom, Torbz, typomaniac, VRD, Joachim Wendler, Sreedhar Yedlapati.
environment
energy efficiency
heat turnaround
renewable energy
exhaust heat
transformation
Hamburg
Recommend
Data protection principles
If you click on one of the following icons, your data will be sent to the corresponding social network.
Privacy information
Cancel
Print
Contact
Our recommendations to you
Read full story
Exhaust heat
Steamy liaison
The metal company Aurubis and the energy supplier enercity are making industrial history in Hamburg. HafenCity Ost ("HarbourCity East") is the first city district to be supplied almost completely with waste heat that is virtually carbon-free.
Read article
Full story
Renewable energy
From bunker to power plant
In the Hamburg district of Wilhelmsburg, a World War II bunker is being used as a renewable energy power plant to generate decentralised heat for the surrounding area, as well as electricity.
Read article
Learn more
Energy efficiency
New heat supply for Dortmund's city
Dortmund is ushering in a new era for heating: in the future, the heat supplied to Dortmund's city centre will originate from industrial exhaust heat. The supplier will be KG Deutsche Gasrußwerke GmbH & Co.
Read article
YouTube
Twitter
Xing
LinkedIn
Instagram