KfW’s contribution to digital transformation | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Digitalisiation and Innovation
KfW’s contribution to digital transformation
Digital technologies of the future are drivers of innovation, competitiveness and growth. They make processes and systems more efficient, increase the ability to react to crises and pave the way for new business models. With its financing instruments and consulting services, KfW invests in a responsible, sustainable and inclusive digital transformation – in developing and emerging economies as well as in industrialised countries.
Infrastructure as a driver for development
KfW supports companies and project partners in the development of innovative technologies and sustainable digital solutions to drive digitalisation and innovation. The spectrum is broad and ranges from the digitalisation of public administration in Rwanda and the promotion of fintechs in Brazil to the financing of highly efficient and sustainable data centres worldwide. An evaluation of the portfolio of KfW subsidiary DEG – Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH from 2023 shows: 76 per cent of its customers contribute to innovation by introducing new technologies, developing new products or implementing new processes.
At the same time, KfW is rigorously pursuing its own digital transformation and innovation agenda: on the one hand in internal processes and, on the other hand, at the interfaces with customers and partners, where it is driving forward the expansion of digital platforms and applications.
KfW...
supports its partners in the digital transformation with grants, concessionary loans and policy-based financing;
finances projects in all sectors, including education and health, energy and water, climate action and also supports technology start-ups;
drives forward digitalisation and innovation internationally as a project and export financier through its subsidiary KfW IPEX-Bank by financing infrastructure projects such as the expansion of broadband or 5G networks as well as investments in data centres;
funded 52 new development cooperation projects in 20234 with a volume of around EUR 1.7 billion. The current portfolio comprises about 450 projects with a volume of around EUR 15 billion;
contributes to digitalisation and innovation through its subsidiary DEG with financing and consultancy services for private German companies in developing countries and emerging economies.
Ethical aspects of digitalisation
New technologies can positively influence many aspects of human development. Digital identity systems and health services, for example, are crucial for expanding public services and increasing their efficiency. Digitalisation also promotes financial participation and education. It thus contributes to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
In addition to the widespread potential of digitalisation, there are also risks – for example with regard to data and customer protection, data misuse, misinformation or discrimination by algorithms. Companies and project partners investing in innovation and digitalisation often face a challenge: How can such risks be identified and how can they be managed responsibly? Special tools are required to mitigate risks and complement the usual audit processes in the area of environmental and social sustainability.
In this context, KfW, as a bank committed to responsibility, provides assistance. It has developed several guidelines and tools for managing technological progress in a risk-conscious manner and makes them publicly available.
Study: Responsible Investment in Technology
A current study and an investor guide from DEG offer an approach to identifying, categorising, assessing and mitigating risks related to ESG (environmental, social, governance) issues in technology investments.
Go to study
Digital Rights Check for Development Finance
Together with the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH and the Danish Institute for Human Rights, KfW Development Bank has developed a Digital Rights Check in the context of Financial Cooperation. It aims to raise awareness of compliance with human rights in digital projects.
Go to Digital Rights Check
Support for companies and export financing
KfW is thus committed to effectively managing digital risks and upholding human rights standards. With digital transformation accelerating, it is imperative that partners and customers adopt these applications and integrate them into their business operations – with the aim of fostering a culture of proactive risk management and ethical digital development.
Examples of projects
Building digital infrastructure
CDC Data Centres is a leading developer and operator of data centres in Australia and New Zealand. The company attaches great importance to sustainability, safety and efficiency, for example through innovative cooling systems that reduce water consumption. With this financing, KfW IPEX-Bank supports the European export economy, as European manufacturers supply essential components for the financed data centres.
Further information
Digital traffic monitoring in Serengeti National Park
Growing numbers of visitors are damaging the sensitive ecosystem of the Serengeti. They are increasingly leading to a critical traffic situation in Tanzania’s national park. Traffic should therefore be monitored and managed by digital recording and registration of all vehicles.
Further information
Remote project management
Remaining capable of action despite crises, even in fragile contexts – remote management, monitoring and verification (RMMV) enables projects to be controlled, monitored and verified remotely. Technical tools are available to facilitate this: images taken using satellites, airplanes or drones, georeferenced databases and digital project management applications.
Further information
Online insurance: Naked
Naked is South Africa’s first fully digital insurance platform that offers private customers insurance for cars, buildings and individual items online. AI-powered technology makes access to insurance benefits easier, more affordable and more transparent. DEG’s participation in Naked enables the company to expand its business and thus give even more people access to affordable insurance in the future.
Further information
Further information
KfW Development Bank
On behalf of the German government, we improve people's living conditions in developing and emerging countries in a sustainable way and promote climate and environmental protection.
Website of KfW Development Bank
DEG
We finance and support private companies that are active in developing countries and emerging economies.
Website of DEG - Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft
KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW IPEX-Bank supports the German and European economies with project and export finance.
Website of KfW IPEX-Bank
Status: 13 February 2025
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkB4UgD
Copy link
Link copied