KfW – Responsible banking | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
KfW in 108 seconds
Play video
KfW – Responsible banking
KfW is one of the world’s leading promotional banks. KfW has been committed to improving economic, social and environmental living conditions across the globe on behalf of the Federal Republic of Germany and the federal states since 1948. To do this, it provided funds totalling EUR 112.8 billion in 2024 alone.
A mandate to promote global development
KfW does not have any branches and does not hold customer deposits. To refinance its business activities, KfW raised funds totalling around EUR 78.1 billion on the international capital markets in 2024 - EUR 12.2 billion of which through ‘Green Bonds - Made by KfW’.
At its headquarters in Frankfurt am Main, at its two branches in Berlin and Bonn, at its subsidiaries KfW IPEX-Bank, DEG and KfW Capital, it employs 8,853 members of staff (as of 2024). It is represented at around 80 locations worldwide.
As a bank committed to responsibility, KfW supports people, countries and institutions who think ahead, driving our society towards the future. This profile is what clearly sets KfW apart from other commercial banks.
Our focus areas for promotion and financing
Promotion of small- and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups
Provision of equity capital
Programmes for the energy-efficient refurbishment of residential property
Support for measures aimed at protecting the environment
Educational funding for private customers
Financing programmes for municipalities and regional promotional banks
Export and project finance
Promotion of developing countries and emerging economies
Financing and advice for companies in developing countries and emerging economies
Promotional mandate and history
Since 1948 we have been promoting and financing projects on behalf of the public sector. Our task in detail and how we implement it.
Read more
Approach and corporate governance
We are a special bank. How we work, how we define governance and what role sustainability plays in our business.
Read more
Reporting portal with facts and figures
We concentrate on topics with special future relevance. An overview of our business and funding figures and our financial reporting.
Read more
Quick start
Sustainability
Responsibility for social issues and the environment
Read more
KfW Research
Economic analyses of the economy, the environment and society
Read more
Investor Relations
Capital market activities, bonds and financial standing
Read more
KfW Capital
Responsible investment in VC funds
Read more
KfW Stiftung
KfW's social commitment
Read more
Newsroom
Latest news from KfW's business areas and subsidiaries
Read more
Further topics on the organisation of KfW
Locations and branches
EU Liaison Office
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbgo0
Copy link
Link copied