KfW supports Syria with reconstruction | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
Syria
KfW supports Syria with reconstruction
Following the fall of the Assad regime, KfW is committed to the stabilisation and reconstruction of Syria. On behalf of the German Federal Government, KfW is providing additional financing and contributes to the country's new start.
In 2024, KfW pledged 79 million euros from the German government's funds. The German government also recently commissioned an additional seven million euros for Syrian civil society projects. Further projects have already been increased in recent months in the context of the refugee movements from Lebanon to Syria.
International Partnerships
KfW's involvement since the beginning of the civil war in 2011 has focussed on crisis management for the people affected and local structures. Implementation was carried out via UN organisations (UNICEF, UNDP, UN-Habitat) and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) (Aga Khan Foundation).
Due to the very high demand and its established partnerships and experience, KfW stands ready to continue its ongoing support for the Syrian population and - where relevant and possible - to adapt and expand it to the changed framework conditions, always in close coordination with the German Federal Government.
Read
here
how KfW was involved in international partnerships during the civil war in Syria.
KfW…
is involved in areas such as water supply and sanitation, education and child protection, as well as employment promotion, social cohesion and food security,
uses funds from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) to provide considerable support to Syrian refugees and host communities in the neighbouring countries of Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq - both in camps and in host communities. In particular, food, medical aid, water and sanitation as well as schooling for children are financed there.
organises its involvement in Syria via its KfW head office and the KfW office in Beirut.
Current Situation
KfW is closely monitoring developments in Syria following the fall of the Assad regime and is in close dialogue with the German government. According to its eight-point plan, the German government's future support for Syria will be based on the following priorities:
the peaceful transition to an inclusive political system that grants rights and participation to all groups,
coming to terms with the Assad era,
social cohesion,
infrastructure to provide basic services to the population.
Syria Recovery Trust Fund
KfW manages the Syria Recovery Trust Fund (SRTF), which was established in 2013. The commissioning parties are the states of the international community, which pay into the multi-donor trust fund. It contributes to the provision of basic services to the suffering population in the former opposition areas in north-east and north-west Syria. The grant funds are used, for example, to finance projects to provide basic infrastructure such as water, electricity, health services and food.
Further information on the SRTF
Further information
KfW Development Bank
On behalf of the German government, we improve people's living conditions in developing and emerging countries in a sustainable way and promote climate and environmental protection.
Website of KfW Development Bank
DEG
We finance and support private companies that are active in developing countries and emerging economies.
Website of DEG - Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft
KfW IPEX-Bank
KfW IPEX-Bank supports the German and European economies with project and export finance.
Website of KfW IPEX-Bank
Status: 3 February 2025
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkB4Jv9
Copy link
Link copied