KfW Locations | KfW
Skip to main content
Tip: Activate javascript to be able to use all functions of our website
KfW Locations
Whether in Jakarta, Indonesia, in Accra, Ghana, or on New York's famous Fifth Avenue - KfW has branch offices in many places. Representatives of KfW Group work in more than 80 cities around the world.
KfW's head office is in Frankfurt am Main. It has branches in Berlin and Bonn. DEG, a subsidiary of KfW Group, is headquartered in Cologne.
KfW Development Bank
In recent years KfW Development Bank has continuously expanded its network of offices. It is now represented at more than 60 locations around the world. Partners and project clients benefit from the close proximity. Financial Cooperation projects and programmes can thus be better prepared and supported, participation in sector dialogues is enhanced, and FC promotional loans and DEG financings for private customers are completed more rapidly.
Locations of KfW Development Bank
DEG
DEG has representative offices DEG in a number of priority regions: in Africa for East Africa, West Africa and Southern Africa, in Asia in China, India, Indonesia, Singapore and Thailand, in Europe in Turkey, and in Latin America for the Andean states, Mercosur and Mexico.
Locations of DEG
KfW IPEX-Bank GmbH
For KfW IPEX-Bank, an international project and export finance institution, it is important to be represented in the target markets where its clients operate. That is why the bank is represented primarily in the economic and financial centres that are most important for export industries.
KfW IPEX-Bank GmbH has its own branch office in London, a subsidiary in Singapore and several representative offices.
Locations of KfW IPEX-Bank
With good connections: KfW and the EU
The KfW Liaison Office to the EU in Brussels is the point of contact for all European issues, in cooperation with the EU and KfW's partner institutions.
Read more
Contact
KfW Group
Palmengartenstraße 5-9
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
+49 69 7431-0
+49 69 7431-2944
info
@kfw.de
Print
Share page
To share the content of this page with your network, click on one of the icons below.
Note on data protection:
When you share content, your personal data is transferred to the selected network.
Data protection
Alternatively, you can also copy the short link:
https://www.kfw.de/s/enkBbgyA
Copy link
Link copied